So, now, let's talk about EBS volumes
and their different volume types.
They come in six different types today,
and we can group them in several categories.
The first one is gp2, gp3,
which is a general purpose SSD volume
that will balance price and performance
for a wide variety of workloads, and this is something
we've been using so far in this course.
Then we have io1 and io2 Block Express.
They're highest-performance SSD volumes
that will be used for mission-critical low-latency
and high-throughput workloads.
Then we have st1 volumes,
and they're low cost HDD volume
designed for frequently accessed
throughput intensive workloads.
We have sc1 volume, which are going to be
the lowest cost HDD volume, and it will be designed
for less frequently accessed workloads.
Now, how do you define an EBS volume?
Well, you can have several factors, for example, size,
throughput, and IOPS, which means I/O operations per second,
and, obviously, when in doubt,
always consult the documentation.
Now, for your EC2 instances,
only gp2 and gp3 and io1 and io2
can be used as boot volumes.
That means where the root OS is going to be running.
So, now, let's go do a deeper dive
onto gp2, gp3, io1 io2, and the other ones,
but gp2, the general purpose and the provisioned IOPS
are going to be the most important for your exam.
So gp2 is cost effective storage with low-latency,
and you can use it for system boot volumes,
virtual desktops, development and test environments.
The size can vary between one gigabytes to 16 terabytes,
and so we have differences between gp2 and gp3.
Gp3 is the newer generation of volumes.
So gp3 gives you a baseline of 3000 IOPS
and a throughput of 125 megabytes per second,
and then we can increase IOPS up to 16,000
and throughput up to 1,000 megabytes
per second independently, okay, so they're not linked.
For gp2, this is the older version,
there're small gp2 volumes that can burst up to 3,000 IOPS,
and then the size of the volume and the IOPS are linked.
That means that if you increase the IOPS,
if you increase the number of gigabytes on your volume,
then you're going to get three more IOPS
up to 16,000 IOPS,
and so that means that if you have 5,334 gigabytes,
then you will have 16,000 IOPS, and you'll maxed it out.
So what do you remember from this slide?
You remember that in gp2, gp3,
this is for cost-effective storage latency,
and then gp3, you can independently set the IOPS
and the throughput, whereas for gp2,
they're linked together.
So, now, let's talk about provisioned IOPS volumes.
So they're used for critical business applications
that need to sustain IOPS performance
or applications that need a lot of IOPS,
for example, more than 16,000.
So from an exam perspective,
whenever you see, for example, a database workload
that is very sensitive to storage performance
and consistency, then the provisioned volumes
are going to be great.
So we have the io1 type of volume
between four and 16 terabytes,
and the max IOPS you can provision, so the max PIOPS,
is going to be around 64,000 for natural EC2 instances
and 32,000 for the other kind of instances,
and because we have an io1 type of volume,
we can increase the provisioned IOPS
independently from the storage size.
If we consider the io2 block express type of volume,
you can go up to 64 terabytes of data.
You get sub-millisecond latency,
and you get a lot of max IOPS, such as 256,000
with an IOPS to gigabyte ratio of 1,000 per one.
So this is definitely
a very high performance I/O type of volume,
and on top of this, the provisioned IOPS volumes
that we'll see in the next lectures
support the EBS multi-attach feature.
So, now, let's quickly touch upon st1 and sc1.
So they cannot be a boot volumes.
This is only for the previous types of volumes.
You can get the size up to 16 terabytes,
and we get two kinds of volumes here.
We have the throughput optimized HDD, so st1,
which is great for big data,
data warehousing, and log processing,
which gives you a max throughput of 500 megabytes per second
and a max IOPS of 500,
and then for cold HDD, so sc1, this is for archive data,
so data that is infrequently accessed,
and this is when you would use it
when you need to have the lowest possible cost.
Here, the max throughput is 250 megabytes per second,
and the max IOPS is 250 as well.
Now, you don't have to remember
all these details going into the exam.
You just need to understand the differences
at a high level of all these volumes.
So the general purpose SSD versus the provisioned IOPS SSD,
in case you need a database, versus some st1 and sc1,
in case you need to have high throughput and lowest cost,
and so you can find a summary of all I said
in this link right here, okay,
which is a screenshot I just took you.
So don't need to remember the details again,
but, remember, that if you want to get, also,
over 32,000 IOPS, you need EC2 Nitro with io1 or io2,
and that will be it for this lecture.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.